Now let's take a step back and see what we have learned so far about the authorization in Lavell.
So we have started off by defining Gates using the gate for say define and we know that the first arguments
to it is the name of this gate check.
And the second was the closure the function which accept a user and then a lot of oil would pass user
for it to check the permissions against and then a list of additional parameters that you will specify.
So how did we verify users permissions.
So we used gate allows.
We specified the gate check name like update posts and then we specified that post.
So if we did that inside the controller then we have passed the model and that's why inside this closure
we will then able to verify user I.D. and compare it to the user I.D. field of the blog post.
So you know that we also did this out to rise inside controllers where we also specified the gate check
name and also past the post as the second parameter now in the last lecture.
We created a new class and called it the blog post policy.
So as we said the policy classes are used to centralize logic that is responsible for deciding whether
user is able to perform an action on specific model or any other resource.
So in this case we have a policy for a blog post.
So we have centered all the logic responsible for granting or denying access to certain operations like
view create or update for a user might be the currently authenticated one or the one you would like
to check.
There's this permissions for and a blog post model.
So what we did first is we registered gate checks with those names like posts that update and specified
methods where this should methods of the class that it should run.
Instead of defining closures then we moved moved even further and we used gate resource to register
for gate checks at once using the blog post policy class.
So as we said using resource would register the gate checks with this specific names CREATE VIEW update
and delete by default.
And it is expecting those methods to be defined in the class that you have specified as an argument
to the gate resource method call now since we said before that the policy classes are best used if you
want to group authorization logic around certain model or resource and blog post is such a resource
it seems to be a waste to either define those gate checks using names and then you'll have to remember
those those names because inside controllers if you do this out rise you have to explicitly reference
the full gate check name.
So using gate resource only solved part of the problem it lets let us specify a prefix for a model generated
for gate checks for us which happens to match the method names we have to specify on the block post
policy but it really doesn't solve the problem of specifying how we should outlaw rise access to a particular
model or resource it's still making it a little bit complicated.
So let's imagine that we will have comments resource then we will have to register it using gate resource
and we will get another list of gate check names which might look like comments create comments update
cetera.
So if we basically are most of the time checking for this basic operations on particular models like
CREATE VIEW update delete and such it might be a better idea to just use those names so instead of using
long complicated names and remembering how you called them exactly or what names would the gate resource
generate you might easily forget what it actually does it might be a better idea to just register policy
for particular model so let's do that.
So first let's comment out this line.
Save the changes and that's the place you can tell a lot of.
Which policy it should use for particular model.
So let's define one for our blog post model.
So the array key is the full class name of your model or resource.
It doesn't have to be an eloquent model.
And then second argument is the class name of the policy class.
So blog post policy so now what we have by adding this blog post and defining policy for it.
It gets out to registered thanks to this call.
This registered policy so you can't remove the remove this call because it is responsible for telling
Lavell which policy to use for which model.
Now we can make things a little bit simpler.
So let's go to the post controller and what you can do now is instead of specifying the name of the
gate check you can just do it like that.
So you verify if you can update the blog post.
So imagine that you will also have some comments and you would like if the user can edit the blog post
but has can if you can also edit comments.
So what you do here is by calling out your eyes and specifying just the method which is defined on a
policy and passing a model instance Lavell will automatically know which policy it has to use.
So now for every new model or resource if you would like to define some authorization logic and group
it you just need to create a policy class defined some methods which basically mean the abilities that
you will check then you just check for those abilities.
So update would be a method name on the policy class and that's it.
Val will guess which model do you mean when you will pass the second argument which in our case here
in this post controller would always be a blog post.
But if we do the same for the comments controller a lot of will also be able to guess that when you
check this out to rice for the update ability and you will pass a comment as a second argument it will
know which policy to use now we will have to modify it everywhere.
So we also have to modify it here and also with that delete so you can see this makes it much simpler.
We only specify what we want to do.
We passed the model and we do not worry about anything because Lavell will know which policy to use.
So now let's save all this changes and let's see if this still works.
You can see that I am not out to rise to edit or delete but I can view the blog post.
So only when we call explicitly this out rise it is verifying the user rights for particular resource
and it knows which policy class to use for that particular model.
So now it makes our life much simpler.
Note this is simple enough if you will generate your policy classes by applying additional model parameter.
This makes it easy to remember you will always have the abilities with the same names and you do not
have to remember any long complicated names to use inside out price checks.
You just need to remember a small subset of the operation names then you only pass a model or resource
and Lavell is guessing which policy to use.
Now if that wouldn't be simple enough you can remove the ability names altogether from added update
and delete.
Now let's go to policy and see if that will somehow work.
So let's.
Are Diddy updating and Didi deleting
and now inside our application let's try everything so you can see that it actually gets to the right
policy and what we did is we simply called this out to rise inside the controller and passed the model
instance.
So how is that possible.
So this is another magic of Lavell.
And actually what it does is I've pasted the map of how it knows which policy method it should use.
So what we are doing right now is we are only passing the model to this outer rise.
And what a lot of ABC is doing is it tries to convert the method name of your controller.
So we have added and update and then it converts it converts start to specific call on the policy class.
So for added update it would call the update method on policy and for destroy methods or destroy action
as you see here on the controller when you call out rise it will call the delete method on their policy
which we happen to have it here.
So now let's remove those DDA calls and generally what you can remember is that if you go with the larval
defaults you will create resource controllers which will generate a controller with specific names.
So those controllers this particular controller is basically centered around one resource about the
blog post.
So we haven't created those names manually.
Lovell did that when we generated our resource controller.
So if you will keep to certain conventions in Lavell it can really make your life a lot easier.
Of course there is nothing wrong to specify the ability names yourself explicitly or even using gates
and defining this specific gate checks explicitly.
There is nothing wrong with that.
You can still do that but I'm just showing you how you can well basically make your life a lot simpler.
But obviously it's old too.
It's all up to your preference.
So I'm not saying that this way or the other is better.
You should think what works better for you what makes your code cleaner and which way you basically
prefer.